SFTPC-71: Troubleshooting Guides in Public Documentation. (#1405)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: sftp/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/sftp-connector-troubleshooting.adoc

= Troubleshoot SFTP Connector - Mule 4

> To troubleshoot Anypoint Connector for SFTP (SFTP Connector), become familiar with the information about troubleshooting connectivity, permissions and server-side issues, troubleshooting Mule application issues, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.

Reviewer: remove "troubleshooting" from "troubleshooting Mule application issues," since the first "troubleshooting" already qualifies this.

> == Troubleshoot Connectivity, Permissions and Server Side Issues

Reviewer 2: "...Permissions, and Server-Side Issues"

> Sometimes when attempting to connect to an SFTP server you can run into issues to establish the connection because an SFTP requires a configured encrypted communication channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes when attempting to connect to an SFTP server you can experience problems establishing the connection because an SFTP requires a configured encrypted communication channel.
```

> Sometimes when attempting to connect to an SFTP server you can experience problems establishing the connection because an SFTP requires a configured encrypted communication channel.

Reviewer: Should the second "SFTP" be "STFP server"?

> For example, you might need to enable specific encryption cyphers or key exchange algorithms, or you could indicate the location of certain authorization keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you might need to enable specific encryption cyphers or key exchange algorithms, or indicate the location of certain authorization keys.
```

To resolve this issue:

> . Locate the SFTP servers configuration file to review the parameters and settings regarding the connection, encryption methods, timeouts and so forth. Checking the configuration file enables you to correct configuration and customize the environment to suit your needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Locate the SFTP servers configuration file, review the parameters and settings , and correct configuration as necessary and customize the environment to suit your needs.
```

> . Locate the SFTP servers configuration file to review the parameters and settings regarding the connection, encryption methods, timeouts and so forth, and correct configuration as necessary and customize the environment to suit your needs.

Reviewer: Per our style, add a comma after "timeouts."

Reviewer: "correct the configuration as necessary".

"Locate the SFTP server configuration file..."

I suggest splitting this into two sentences:

. Locate the SFTP server configuration file to review the parameters and settings regarding the connection, encryption methods, timeouts, and so forth.
. Correct the configuration as necessary, and customize the environment to suit your needs.

For example, if you are using OpenSSH you can access the `sshd_config` file.

. Use the configuration file to increase the logging level on the server side.

== Troubleshoot Mule Application Issues

> Sometimes you are not sure why the application is failing and you require a better understanding of what is going on in the interaction with the SFTP server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes you are not sure why the application is failing and you require a better understanding of what is going on in the app's interaction with the SFTP server.
```

> Sometimes you are not sure why the application is failing and you require a better understanding of what is going on in the app's interaction with the SFTP server.

Reviewer: application > app

To resolve this error:

* Use the configuration file to increase the logging level on the server side.

> * Try to replicate the issue using an SFTP client, for example, Cyberduck or Filezilla. If the issue also occurs with these clients, then it is likely that the issue is not related to the Mule application.

Reviewer: Mule app

> * Get better and more detailed logs on the Mule application side by enabling verbose logging for SFTP Connector and for JSCH driver:

Reviewer: "the JSCH driver"

+

> . Access Anypoint Studio, navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Access Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.
```

. Open your application's project name.

> . Open the *src/main/resources* path folder.

Reviewer: Not sure if this and the file name should be backticks instead of asterisks. Something to bring up at a future doc meeting for cases like this.

> . Open the `log4j2.xml` file inside the folder.

Reviewer 2: Is it correct that the path name is bold but the file name is mono?

. Add or uncomment the following line:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <AsyncLogger name=“org.mule.extension.sftp” level=“TRACE”/>
    <AsyncLogger name=“com.jcraft.jsch” level=“DEBUG”/>
----
[start=6]
. Add the following argument to your run configuration:
+

>  -M-Djavax.net.debug=ssl,handshake

Reviewer 2: Mono? ` `

> * Try to minimize or remove unnecessary data transformations (you could even use hard coded data) to minimize complexity and determine whether the issue is in the interaction with the SFTP server.

Reviewer: Saying "in the interaction sounds funny to me." Should be "with the interaction" 
Suggestion:

"and determine whether the issue is with the interaction between the app and the SFTP server" (or whatever is correct)

> * Try to minimize or remove unnecessary data transformations (you could even use hard coded data) to minimize complexity and determine whether the issue is in the interaction with the SFTP server.

Reviewer: minimize the complexity of what - the configuration? the app?

[[common-throws]]
== Understand Common Throws

Here is a list of common throws messages and how to interpret them.

* SFTP:ILLEGAL_PATH

>  The specified path is invalid because, for example, it does not exist.

Reviewer: Two spaces before "for"?

* SFTP:FILE_ALREADY_EXISTS

>  An attempt made to create a file at the same location and with the same name of an already existing file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 An attempt was made to create a file at the same location and with the same name as an already existing file.
```

>  This happens, for example, when attempting to write a file using the CREATE_NEW write mode to the path of an already existing file.

Reviewer: Suggestion: remove "already"

* SFTP:ACCESS_DENIED

>  An operation made an attempt to access a path at the SFTP server, and perform an action for which the user has not been granted permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 An operation made an attempt to access a path at the SFTP server and perform an action for which the user has not been granted permission.
```

>  An operation made an attempt to access a path at the SFTP server and perform an action for which the user has not been granted permission.

Reviewer: "path at the SFTP server" > Can you say "an SFTP server path"?

* SFTP:FILE_LOCK

 An operation made an attempt to acquire a lock over a file, and it was unsuccessful.

* SFTP:ILLEGAL_CONTENT

>  The Write operation received an invalid content to write.

Reviewer 2: Is this an operation name that should not be in bold?

>  An operation made an attempt to acquire a lock over a file, and it was unsuccessful.

Reviewer: An operation made an unsuccessful attempt to acquire a lock over a file.

Maybe this is really saying:
An operation made an unsuccessful attempt to access a locked file.

>  The *Write* operation received an invalid content to write.

Reviewer: "received invalid content to write"

* SFTP:CONNECTIVITY

>  The connection to the SFTP server is interrupted.

Reviewer: "was interrupted"

* SFTP:INVALID_CREDENTIALS

>  Authentication against SFTP server failed due to invalid credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 Authentication against the SFTP server failed due to invalid credentials.
```

* SFTP:CONNECTION_TIMEOUT

>  The connection attempt to the SFTP server timed out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The attempt to connect to the SFTP server timed out.
```

* SFTP:CANNOT_REACH

>  An error occurred while attempting to establish the connection to the indicated host and port for the SFTP server. Typically, the connection is refused remotely, for example, no process is listening on the remote address or port.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 An error occurred while attempting to establish the connection to the indicated host and port for the SFTP server. Typically, the connection is refused remotely, for example, if no process is listening on the remote address or port.
```

* SFTP:UNKNOWN_HOST

>  Can not determine the IP address of a host.

Reviewer 2: Cannot

>  An error occurred while attempting to establish the connection to the indicated host and port for the SFTP server. Typically, the connection is refused remotely, for example, if no process is listening on the remote address or port.

Reviewer: "connection to the indicated SFTP server host and port"

>  Cannot determine the IP address of a host.

Reviewer: Do you know who is doing this action? "Mule cannot determine..."

* SFTP:DISCONNECTED

>  Too many failed login attempts to a server made. There could be multiple causes, but the most common one is invalid credentials.

Reviewer: The app made too many failed...
"This can result from multiple causes,..."
